Page 2 Content
------------------------------------------------------

Section 1: use timeline image provided

section 2:

The Genesis
It was not all too long ago that mobile apps were nothing more than playing the classic “Snake” game, applying ringtones and using calculators and calendars. However as soon the technological development grew enough to make room for our mobile devices to become faster, smarter and more versatile, software developers saw how to help users satisfy their daily needs with their smart-devices. Consumers were demanding more features and more usability. Mobile networks grew, handset manufacturers opened their platforms to outside developers and technological development went into overdrive as devices became faster, smarter and more versatile. Software developers saw the window of opportunity and chance to capitalize on these new markets and they figured out how to help users satisfy their daily needs with their smart-devices. Today, mobile communication and the use of mobile apps have become an integrated part of our lives, so much that most people would feel uneasy without their smart-devices and their daily apps.

The first big surge of app development came with release of the first iPhone and Apple’s iOS platform. Apple’s competitors wasted no time joining the race for the market and this brought with it an ever growing mobile app trend that quickly became a common part of our day-to-day lives. Large companies such as Apple, Google, Nokia, Samsung, HTC, Motorola and many others understood that without a sustainable, well-developed software ecosystem that offers a bevy of attractive apps, they would not be able to compete.

Section 3

10 Fun Facts About the History of Mobile Apps
1997 Nokia 6110 Snake was the first Mobile App
1998 Psion Series 5 Smartphone was introduced
2000 Sony Ericsson R380 with touch screen and email app
2002 First smartphone with built-in camera Nokia 7650
2004 Advanced Call Manager (ACM) app for UIQ is released at the greatest app store Handango
2008 Apple introduces 500 Apps in its App Store
2010 Microsoft introduces the Windows Phone 7
2012 Apple App downloads exceed 25 billion
2014 Mobile Apps overtake PC Internet usage in the U.S.
2020 Apps interconnected help save 1.3 lives

Section 4

The Modern App-Culture
One would assume that after a good five to six years if mobile platform and application development the supply would start to stagnate, assuming “what else could they come up with”. The contrary however is what has been going on in the last few years. Flurry.com has conducted research that shows that since the beginning of 2012, the number of new apps has doubled and the amount of independently-owned app developers that serve global audiences have increased more than threefold since 2012 (click here for full article). This shows that it’s not only the big names such as Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, Instagram and Whatsapp that own the market. Though they have the largest piece of the market-pie, new developers are coming up with innovative solutions for current needs and are improving on existing ideas.

At the beginning of 2014, for the first time in the United States, the shift to mobile activity was realized. A statistical analysis of data done by comScore and the research firm Enders Analysis showed that internet traffic is now primarily made of mobile apps and/or mobile browsers, about 55%. You may listen to the mobile society audio below.

Note: Link to the audio file provided below section 4 content